It's now time for us to start to write out an actual test.
So in this video we're going to write a very simple test around our sign up route handler because we
are trying to write a test around the sign up route handler.
We're going to create a folder inside of the routes directory.
So new folder called Underscore, underscore, test, underscore, underscore.
When we make use of jest, we follow the convention that if we are trying to test a given file, we
make a folder inside the same directory called underscore, underscore, test like that right there.
And then inside that directory we'll make a new file that has the name of the file that we are trying
to test.
So sign up then tests.
So we're going to follow the same convention for testing everything.
Whenever we want to test something inside of a file, make a folder in the same directory, call it
underscore, underscore, test, underscore, underscore.
Make a file inside there with the same name as the original file, but with tests at the very end.
So then inside this file we're going to write out, like I said, a very simple test and figure out
how to run it.
So at the very top, we're going to first import requests from super test.
So remember, super test is the thing that's going to allow us to fake a request to the express application.
Well, then add in an import statement to get the app that we had declared inside of the app file.
So we will get app from up directory up.
And then we can start to write out a test statement.
So we will write out it and then a description for this test.
This very first test that we are going to put together, we're just going to make sure that we can send
in a post request to this sign up route right here with a valid email and password and get some kind
of response.
So I just wanted to send in a post request to that route with an email, a password in the body.
And we're going to make sure that we get a response that has a status of 201.
That's all we're going to do for this very first test.
So inside the string right here, I'm going to put in a description of it returns a201 on successful
sign up.
Then as a second argument, we will put in an async function.
All the different tests that we are going to put together with super tests are going to follow a very
similar structure.
We are going to return.
Request we're going to pass in app.
And then we're going to chain on a number of different methods to it.
So the first thing were going to chain on.
Is to tell this thing where we want to make the request to and what method we want to use for the request.
So in our case we want to make a post request and we want to make the post request to a root of API
users sign up.
So we'll do slash API.
Slash users slash sign up.
We will then send off the request.
And when we do so, we're going to specify some information to include in the body of the request.
So this right here is going to be provided as the body, as I mentioned, for this first test.
We want to make sure we send along a valid email and a valid password to sign up with.
So I'm going to specify an email.
Test.
Test and a password of.
Password.
So this is going to actually send the request off.
If we then want to make some assertions about the response, we will train them on to the very end.
So for example, we can write in, expect, and then put in the status code that we expect to receive
in the response.
In this case, we expect to get a status code of 201 back.
And that's it.
That's everything we need to write out for a very basic and straightforward test.
Now you will notice that I marked this function as async, even though we did not use the awake keyword
inside of here.
I'm just doing that out of habit.
We will eventually attempt to make multiple requests inside of a single test.
When we do, we're going to have to start to use the O8 keyword.
And so I found that it's easier to just add on async from the get go and not have to worry about adding
on adding it on at some point in the future or forgetting to add it on and being given some kind of
error.
Well, then save this file and to run it we will go over to our terminal and run npm run test inside
our auth directory.
So I'll change into auth and then npm run test.
Now just, you know, the first time we run this, we are going to probably see an error which is OC,
but let's run it anyways.
Okay.
So it looks like the test is running.
Now the very first test that we run is going to take a little bit to actually start up.
And it looks like we'll come back to why it took so long.
Just a moment.
What's more relevant is that we got a 400 bad request back.
So why is that?
Well, you might recall if we take a look at the implementation of our sign up route handler, here
is sign ups right here.
Inside of you're at some point in time.
We attempt to create a new JSON web token.
When we attempt to create that JSON web token, we try to access an environment variable of JWT underscore
key.
We had previously been making a check to ensure that this thing was defined inside of our indexed file,
but right now we have split up our indexed and APTs files into two separate files, so we are no longer
making sure that this environment variable exists.
As a matter of fact, it doesn't exist right now when we are running all of our code inside this test
environment.
This environment variable only gets defined when we run our code inside of a pod because remember we
had specified for this environment variable to be defined inside of our deployment config file.
So to get this air to go away, all we need to do is to make sure that we define this environment variable
at some point in time.
There are many different ways to define a environment variable in a kind of test environment.
So we're going to take just a very simple, very direct way.
It's not necessarily the best way of doing it, but it's going to get that air to go away right away.
I'm going to go back to the setup file.
I'm going to find the for all statements.
And inside there, we're just going to directly set the environment variable with a process and B JWT
underscore key and we'll set it equal to whatever string.
Again, not the best way of handling this, but it's going to work for right now.
I'm going to save this and I should be able to then go back over to my terminal and see that my test
is now passing.
Awesome.
So we've gone through the process of writing out one full test.
We're going to start to write out a lot more tests very quickly.
So we'll take a quick pause right here and continue in just a moment.